Add doc for event page (#12690)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-events.md

TiDB Cloud logs the historical events at the cluster level. An *event* indicates a change in your TiDB Cloud cluster. You can view the logged events on the **Events** page, including the event type, status, message, trigger time, and trigger user.

This document describes how to view the events for TiDB Cloud clusters using the **Events** page and lists the supported event types.

> **Note:**
>
> Currently, the Events page is only available for [Dedicated Tier](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier) clusters.

## View the Events page

To view the events on the Events page, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have multiple projects, you can switch to the target project from the ☰ hover menu in the upper-left corner.

2. Click the name of the target cluster. The cluster overview page is displayed.
3. Click **Events** in the left navigation pane.

## Logged events

TiDB Cloud logs the following types of cluster events:

| Event Type| Description |  Available since |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |

> | CreateCluster |  Events recoded for cluster creation action.  |  2023-03-22   |
> | PauseCluster |   Events recoded for cluster pause action. |  2023-03-22   |
> | ResumeCluster |   Events recoded for cluster resume action. |  2023-03-22   |
> | ModifyClusterSize |   Events recoded for modifying cluster size action. |  2023-03-22   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CreateCluster |  Events recoded for cluster creation actions.  |  2023-03-22   |
| PauseCluster |   Events recoded for cluster pause actions. |  2023-03-22   |
| ResumeCluster |   Events recoded for cluster resume actions. |  2023-03-22   |
| ModifyClusterSize |   Events recoded for modifying cluster size actions. |  2023-03-22   |
```

> | CreateCluster |  Events recoded for cluster creation actions.  |  2023-03-22   |
> | PauseCluster |   Events recoded for cluster pause actions. |  2023-03-22   |
> | ResumeCluster |   Events recoded for cluster resume actions. |  2023-03-22   |
> | ModifyClusterSize |   Events recoded for modifying cluster size actions. |  2023-03-22   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CreateCluster |  Events recorded for cluster creation actions.  |  2023-03-22   |
| PauseCluster |   Events recorded for cluster pause actions. |  2023-03-22   |
| ResumeCluster |   Events recorded for cluster resume actions. |  2023-03-22   |
| ModifyClusterSize |   Events recorded for modifying cluster size actions. |  2023-03-22   |
```

---
title: TiDB Cloud Cluster Events

> summary: Learn how to review the events for TiDB Cloud clusters using the Event page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to view the events for TiDB Cloud clusters using the Event page. 
```

---

> # TiDB Cloud Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# TiDB Cloud Cluster Events
```

> TiDB Cloud logs the historical events at the cluster level. An *event* indicates a change in the TiDB Cloud cluster environment. You can review the logged events on the **Events** page, including the event type, status, message, trigger time, and trigger user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud logs the historical events at the cluster level. An *event* indicates a change in the TiDB Cloud cluster. You can view the logged events on the **Events** page, including the event type, status, message, trigger time, and trigger user.
```

> This document describes how to review the events for TiDB Cloud clusters using the **Events** page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to view the events for TiDB Cloud clusters using the **Events** page and lists the supported event types.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > The Event page currently is only available for [Dedicated Tier](/tidb-cloud/select-cluster-tier.md#dedicated-tier) clusters.

Reviewer 2: Can you add this limitation to this doc: [Serverless Tier Limitations](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/serverless-tier-limitations)

## View the Events page

To view the events on the Events page, take the following steps:

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/), navigate to the [**Clusters**](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters) page of your project.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > If you have multiple projects, you can switch to the target project from the ☰ hover menu in the upper-left corner.

2. Click the name of the target cluster. The cluster overview page is displayed.
3. Click **Events** in the left navigation pane.

## Logged events

TiDB Cloud logs the following types of cluster events:

| Event Type| Description |  Available since |
|:--- |:--- |:--- |
| CreateCluster |  Events recoded for cluster creation action.  |  2023-03-22   |
| PauseCluster |   Events recoded for cluster pause action. |  2023-03-22   |
| ResumeCluster |   Events recoded for cluster resume action. |  2023-03-22   |
| ModifyClusterSize |   Events recoded for modifying cluster size action. |  2023-03-22   |

For each event, the following information is logged:

- Event Type
- Status

> - Message

Reviewer: What kind of info will be provided in Message?

- Time
- Triggered By

> **Note:**
>

> > - If the cluster events happened before 2023-03-22, these events are not visible on the Events page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Cluster events started before 2023-03-22 are not visible on the Events page. 
```

## Event retention policy

> - For Dedicated Tier clusters, the event data is kept for 7 days.
> - For Serverless Tier clusters, the event data is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Dedicated Tier clusters, the event data is kept for 7 days.
```

Reviewer: As this feature is not provided for Serverless Tier clusters for now, there is no need to provide the retention info for Serverless Tier.
